Work with HR Database
  EMPLOYEES TABLE

1. write a SQL query to find those employees whose salaries are less than 6000. Return full name (first and last name), and salary.

2. write a SQL query to find those employees whose salary is higher than 8000. Return first name, last name and department number and salary.

3. write a SQL query to find those employees whose last name is "McEwen". Return first name, last name and department ID.

4. write a SQL query to identify employees who do not have a department number. Return employee_id, first_name, last_name, email, phone_number, hire_date, job_id, salary,commission_pct, manager_id and department_id.

5. write a SQL query to find the details of 'Marketing' department. Return all fields.

6. write a SQL query to find those employees whose first name does not contain the letter ‘M’. Sort the result-set in ascending order by department ID. Return full name (first and last name together), hire_date, salary and department_id.

7. write a SQL query to find those employees who earn between 8000 and 12000 (Begin and end values are included.) and get some commission. These employees joined before ‘1987-06-05’ and were not included in the department numbers 40, 120 and 70. Return all fields.

8. write a SQL query to find those employees who do not earn any commission. Return full name (first and last name), and salary.

9. write a SQL query to find the employees whose salary is in the range 9000,17000 (Begin and end values are included). Return full name, contact details and salary.

10. write a SQL query to find the employees whose first name ends with the letter ‘m’. Return the first and last name, and salary.

11. write a SQL query to find those employees whose salaries are not between 7000 and 15000 (Begin and end values are included). Sort the result-set in ascending order by the full name (first and last). Return full name and salary.

12. write a SQL query to find those employees who were hired between November 5th, 2007 and July 5th, 2009. Return full name (first and last), job id and hire date.

13. write a SQL query to find those employees who work either in department 70 or 90. Return full name (first and last name), department id.

14. write a SQL query to find those employees who work under a manager. Return full name (first and last name), salary, and manager ID.

15. write a SQL query to find the employees who were hired before June 21st, 2002. Return all fields.

16. write a SQL query to find the employees whose managers hold the ID 120, 103, or 145. Return first name, last name, email, salary and manager ID.


17.write a SQL query to find employees whose first names contain the letters D, S, or N. Sort the result-set in descending order by salary. Return all fields.

18. write a SQL query to find those employees who earn above 11000 or the seventh character in their phone number is 3. Sort the result-set in descending order by first name. Return full name (first name and last name), hire date, commission percentage, email, and telephone separated by '-', and salary.

19. write a SQL query to find those employees whose first name contains a character 's' in the third position. Return first name, last name and department id.

20. write a SQL query to find those employees work in the departments that are not part of the department 50 or 30 or 80. Return employee_id, first_name,job_id, department_id.

21. write a SQL query to find the employees whose department numbers are included in 30, 40, or 90. Return employee id, first name, job id, department id.


22. write a SQL query to find those employees who worked more than two jobs in the past. Return employee id.

23. write a SQL query to count the number of employees, the sum of all salary, and difference between the highest salary and lowest salaries by each job id. Return job_id, count, sum, salary_difference.

24. write a SQL query to find each job ids where two or more employees worked for more than 300 days. Return job id.

25. write a SQL query to count the number of cities in each country. Return country ID and number of cities.

26. write a SQL query to count the number of employees worked under each manager. Return manager ID and number of employees.

27. write a SQL query to find all jobs. Sort the result-set in descending order by job title. Return all fields.

28. write a SQL query to find all those employees who are either Sales Representatives or Salesmen. Return first name, last name and hire date.

29. write a SQL query to calculate the average salary of employees who receive a commission percentage for each department. Return department id, average salary.

30. write a SQL query to find the departments where any manager manages four or more employees. Return department_id.

31. write a SQL query to find the departments where more than ten employees receive commissions. Return department id.

32. write a SQL query to find those employees who have completed their previous jobs. Return employee ID, end_date.

33. write a SQL query to find those employees who do not have commission percentage and have salaries between 7000, 12000 (Begin and end values are included.) and who are employed in the department number 50. Return all the fields of employees.

34. write a SQL query to find the employees whose first or last name begins with 'D'. Return first name, last name.

35. write a SQL query to find details of those jobs where the minimum salary exceeds 9000. Return all the fields of jobs.

36. write a SQL query to find those employees who joined after 7th September 1987. Return all the fields.

